## Roctokit [core]: Rust interfaces to a generated GitHub v3 API 

**Roctokit** provides stock interfaces supporting both synchronous and asynchronous HTTP clients, including WebAssembly compatibility. 

Interfaces are generic by extending the `adapter` subsystem, which should give you features you'll need for a production system. 

This library is intended to be used in conjunction with [roctogen's](TODO) generated API models and endpoints.

### Getting Started

If you just need to get started, use the cargo feature or target as appropriate:

- Asynchronous requests using `reqwest`: `cargo build --feature reqwest`
- Synchronous requests using `ureq`: `cargo build --feature ureq`
- WebAssembly using: `cargo build --target wasm-unknown-unknown`

Use both [roctogen](TODO) and [roctokit](TODO) as cargo dependencies in your `Cargo.toml`:

```nocompile
[dependencies]
roctogen = "*"
roctokit = "*"
```

#### Client creation

Parts of GitHub's v3 API and also it's rate limiting quotas are toggled through an authentication workflow. This is abstracted through an [`Auth`](TODO) struct, which is passed into the client.

- Basic username/password auth: `Auth::Basic(user, pass)`
- Token: `Auth::Token(token)`
- Bearer: `Auth::Bearer(bearer)`
- Unauthenticated: `Auth::None`

The client could be one of the stock interfaces, or a custom one implementing the generic base [`adaprer::Client`](TODO). If using the stock interfaces, `roctokit` provides a convenience method to instantiate the client, which is available as soon as the appropriate cargo feature is enabled. 

```rust
use roctokit::adapters::client;

client(&auth).expect("Cannot create new client")
```

#### API's and endpoints

Endpoints are generated by the [`roctogen`](TODO) library, navigating all available API's, parameters and models is best done through the generated [`roctogen` documentation](TODO). 

Additional documentation on building query parameter structs and calling endpoints with the client interface is available in the [`roctogen` README](TODO).

### Custom Client Adapters

Aside from the stock client interfaces, it's often desirable to write a client interface, allowing control over pagination,backpressure, and the underlying HTTP framework. This is a more advanced concept, and it's a good idea to review the [examples](../examples). 

Firstly, you will need to implement the [`adapters::Client`](TODO) interface:

```rust
struct Client {
}

impl rocotokit::adapters::Client for Client {
    type Req = MyRequest;
    type Err = MyError;
    type Body = Vec<u8>;

    // ...
}
```

A Client is used by `roctogen`'s generated API to build a request object containing authentication parameters, send it using a desired HTTP framework and deserialise the response into an type known by `roctogen`. 

 - `type Req`: A request type compatible with the underlying HTTP framework. 
 - `type Err`: An error type for this client that must have a `From` implementation to `roctokit::adapters::AdapterError`.
 - `type Body`: A POST/PUT HTTP payload type used by the underlying HTTP framework.

The underlying methods to the `Client` that need implementing:

 - `new`: Construct the client struct.
 - `build`: Construct a user specified `type Req` from a `roctogen` `GithubRequest`, which can then be used with the desired HTTP framework.
 - `fetch` / `fetch_async`: a synchronous and asynchronous mechanism to send the `type Req` payload. 
 - `from_json`: A mechanism to serialise a `roctogen` model to a `type Body` payload.

In addition, the `GithubResponseExt` should be implemented for the response type sent by the desired HTTP framework. This trait contains:

 - `is_success`: determine whether the response was successful and should generate an error.
 - `status_code`: return the status code of the response.
 - `to_json` / `to_json_async`: A synchronous or asynchronous method to deserialise the json from the payload.

### Testing

Be aware that, by default, tests perform real HTTP requests to the GitHub API. Some of these may be offloaded to a wiremock server that serves generated stubs using the `mock` feature.

- **WebAssembly Tests**:

```nocompile
$ wasm-pack test --firefox --headless
```

- ** **Synchronous Tests**:

```nocompile
$ cargo test --target x86_64-unknown-linux-gnu -- --nocapture
```

To avoid GitHub's API rate limits during testing, you can use WireMock to
mock the API locally. Run the following to start WireMock, and run the
tests with the `--mock` feature:

```nocompile
$ docker run -d --name wiremock -p 8080:8080 -v $PWD/tests/stubs:/home/wiremock
rodolpheche/wiremock
$ cargo test --features mock,ureq
```

#### Regenerate the wiremock stubs

If the GitHub API changes, you can regenerate the WireMock stubs:

```nocompile
$ docker run -d --name wiremock -p 8080:8080 -v $PWD/tests/stubs:/home/wiremock -u (id -u):(id -g) rodolpheche/wiremock --verbose --proxy-all="https://api.github.com" --record-mappings
```

License: Apache-2.0
